[Music]
ever felt like your dog can really
understand you yeah when they look at
you with those cute soulful eyes it
seems like they actually get you when
you say you love them or scold them for
reading something off the table well
guess what it's true Hungarian
scientists published a study in science
in 2016 that proved you can't trick your
dog with words for their experiment they
put 13 dogs inside an MRI machine that
recorded their brain activity while the
dogs were inside the machine a trainer
they were used to pronounce different
words that the dog owners usually used
like good boy super and well done and
neutral words like whatever and
nevertheless the trainer said those
words with positive and neutral
intonation x' the brain activity images
showed that the dogs processed the
familiar words using the left side of
the brain regardless of intonation while
tones like emotions behind the words
were picked up by the regions of the
right side of the brain and this is
exactly how human brains react to speech
- on top of that even when praising
words were said with neutral intonation
it's still prompted strong activity in
the dog's brain this means that foutch
is associated the meaning of those words
with a positive experience
that's why neutral words said with a
happy intonation didn't get the same
response what does it all mean for dog
owners well it means that even if you
announce in a bright tone and with a
smile on your face that your pup is
going to the vet your doggy pal won't
believe they're going to Disneyland and
you're still going to have to run all
over the house trying to catch by now to
get him in the car yeah your four-legged
friend can do a lot more than just chase
it's Dale just ask some scientists from
the US they decided to explore even
further the way dogs perceive human
language by carrying out an experiment
which was published in the journal
frontiers in neuroscience last year they
picked up 12 dogs and asked their owners
to do some specific training lasting
about two to six months that training
was based on teaching the dogs how to
distinguish two different toys by their
respect
of names after the training period was
over the dogs demonstrated they could
pick between the two objects by choosing
and fetching the right one when prompted
by the owner really smart doggies this
proved that dogs possessed a basic
understanding of words they've been
taught to associate with objects but
scientists wanted to see how the dogs
would react to new words and objects so
they put the dogs inside the MRI machine
while their owners were standing in
front of the scan
the dogs heard both the words they had
been trained to recognize and new
made-up words for example the owner
would see the word Piggy several times
and then showed the corresponding toy
then the owner would use made-up words
like Babu and Bodmin and presented new
random objects such as a hat or a doll
after comparing the dog's responses to
such tests the researchers concluded
that there's a special region in a dog's
brain that performs the function of
processing vocabulary differences which
means that even though they can't fully
grasp the precise meaning of words our
speech isn't just gibberish to them I
guess now you can't get away with
calling your puppy palace stinky mess he
just may get what you said and not only
does the ability to understand human
language make dogs close to humans just
like us they can do math ok honestly I'm
awful at math and while bringing Fifi to
math class won't help me pass my next
exam dogs do have something like a
number sense a 2002 study published in
animal cognition proves that pooches can
count in small numbers in the study
researchers showed a dog a single Treat
in a ball then they either pretended to
drop in a second treat or they did
actually add the tree after that the dog
was shown the bowl again and they would
stare at it longer if things didn't add
up if they'd expected to get two treats
and there was just one in front of them
the same thing happened when the
researchers added to the bowl an extra
treat the dogs were confused again
because they saw three treats instead of
two I told you it's hard to trick them I
bet you've heard the phrase puppy love
well let me tell you they don't call it
that for nothing
dogs can fall in love the same way
people do according to a professor of
animal behavior dr. Marc Bekoff dogs are
perfectly capable of establishing
long-term commitments to each other dogs
in love don't like being separated from
their SL and feel overjoyed when they're
reunited dr. Berkoff also says that most
canines prefer a one mate relationship
to raise their children together what's
more our furry friends also experience
an increase in oxytocin levels when they
bond with their mates oxytocin also
known as the cuddle hormone is the same
hormone that our bodies release when we
build relationships with others but love
can also mean heartbreak and as dr. Beck
off-notes dogs can be rejected just like
humans when it happens they suffer a
breakup feeling sad and lonely Oh so the
next time you see your pooch feeling
blue maybe she got her heart broken and
needs a bowl of ice cream to drown her
sorrows the ability to feel deep
emotions also makes your dog a real pro
at reading them too quite often it seems
like they pick up on your mood and know
when you need comfort and a 2016 study
carried out by a team of researchers
from University of Lincoln and
University of Sao Paulo proves this
point the researchers recruited 17
domestic dogs and presented them with
photos and audio clips with examples of
both human and dogs conveying different
combinations of positive and negative
emotional expressions the dogs watch the
images and listen to audio samples at
the same time without any prior training
the team noticed that the dogs spent
much longer looking at the facial
expressions when they matched the
emotional state expressed in the audio
clip both for people and canines this
study reveals that dogs can combine
different sources of sensory information
to create a consistent picture of
emotions that they witness that's why
they're so sensitive and no one you
could use a snuggle or two as we all
know dogs make great companions even
when you're watching TV or a new video
on bright side they'll more than likely
pay attention to the screen too however
most of the time they just glance at the
TV rather than
focus on it like we do so don't expect
your little furball to follow the
storyline of your favorite movie but
research conducted at university of
central lancashire reveals that domestic
dogs do prefer certain images and videos
and no surprises here they like to watch
other canines there's even a special TV
channel created just for our four-legged
puppy pals since dogs see color with
only two spectrums of light blue and
yellow this channel tries to avoid green
or red they even shoot their programs at
the same low angle that our furry
friends see the world they show dogs
chasing each other riding in cars with
their owners napping and my dog's
favorite being visited by the mailman
the channels creators claim that their
shows entertained dogs when they are
left alone and help them with separation
anxiety well I don't know about you but
I always leave the TV on when I go out
so that my pooch doesn't feel lonely
have you ever noticed any other unusual
abilities or human-like qualities of
dogs sound off in the comments below
don't forget to give this video a like
share it with your friends and click
subscribe to stay on the bright side of
life
[Music]